# Project-476
Carbon Credit Generation Project by NSL Sugars at Desanur, Karnataka, India.

Scale of the project activity Large Scale

Project participants NSL Sugars (Tungabhadra) Limited

Host Party India

Applied methodologies and
standardized baselines
CDM Methodologies:
ACM0006: Electricity and heat generation from biomass, version16.0
Standardized baseline:
Not applicable.

Sectoral scopes Scope: 01 Energy industries (Renewable/Non-Renewable Sources)
______________
Country : India

District : Ballary

Village : Desanur

Tehsil : Siruguppa

State : Karnataka

Latitude : 15 deg 39’44” N

Longitude : 76 deg 52’27” E
_____________
The project activity involves 1 x 110 TPH boiler with high pressure and temperature configuration (110
atm and 540 °C), 1 x 18 MW back pressure and 1 x 8 MW Double extraction cum condensing Turbine
Generator set. The cogeneration cycle for the plant is designed as regenerative cycle with high pressure
feed water heater and one low-pressure feed water heater. The plant is generating more than three to
four times power as compared to the power generated by the sugar mill of same capacity having
conventional low pressure and temperature steam configuration with back pressure turbines.
Although very few bagasse/biomass based cogeneration power plants are designed with above
mentioned high pressure and temperature parameters, the technology is well proven worldwide.

Some of the salient features of the project equipment can be found in the below mentioned table:
Boiler Specifications Values
_______
Heating surface 5678 sq.m.
________
Boiler working pressure 110 atm.
_______
Steam capacity 110TPH
________
Steam Temperature 540 °C ± 5 °C
_________
Boiler Make M/s ISGEC
________
Type Single Drum, Water Tube Type
__________
Steam Turbine Specification Values
_______
Make BHEL
_________
Model EHNK-40/60 – 3
Type of machine Double Extraction Cum condensing
No. of stages Multi stage
Output rating 28200 kW
Turbine speed 6838 rpm
Steam pressure 110 atm
Stator Voltage 11000V
Stator Current 1850A
Rotor Voltage 186.3V
Rotor Current 1500 A
Serial No 678
A.5. Parties and project participants >>
Since project owner is also the representor in UCR for this project, hence no representative or separate
participants are applicable.
Party (Host) Participants
India Project Owner: M/s NSL Sugars (Tungabhadra) Limited
Address: Desanur, Siruguppa Taluka, Ballary District, Karnataka583121, India.

